hi everyone how are you Lea cross with
the mortgage center I wanted to talk
about purchase plus improvements a lot
of people are inquiring about this these
days and there's some big
misunderstandings that's getting people
discouraged as well as just not getting
them approved all together purchase plus
improvements what this is is you're
going to purchase a home but you know
that right off the bat there's things
you want to fix up on it like right from
the get-go but you don't have the money
to do it so you want to get renovation
money that you can then wrap up into the
mortgage now there's a lot that I could
go on and on about with purchase plus
improvements but what I want to do here
is just give you the Coles notes and
then you can give me a call if this is
something that you're interested in and
I can get into further detail but the
most important thing that you need to
understand with improvement money is for
one you need a quote upfront before the
mortgage is even submitted for
application when we submit it we need a
contractor quote so that means if you're
trying to purchase a property you gotta
ask the seller to let some contractor in
to give you a quote on what you want
done whether it be new paint drywall
electrical whatever it is you're doing
you need the quote upfront and we submit
it to the lender and we ask for those
funds second thing that you need to note
is you do not get those funds on
completion dates what you get are the
funds to purchase that home with you
don't get the improvement money until
after the improvements are done and
they've been verified by the bank or the
notary whatever the situation is and
then they see receipts they see pictures
they get another appraisal done whatever
the terms were from the beginning once
that is done then they will release the
funds so you need to be able to pay for
those renovations sometimes within 90
days because they have a limit time
limit on how long they'll give you to do
those renovations you need to be for
that out of pocket upfront or you need
to find a nice contractor who will give
you a net 30 or next
steam on those payments then you need to
prove that they were done and then
you'll get reimbursed about money third
thing that you need to note is it has to
be an improvement and it has to be on
the home so there's two things I want to
bring up here for one if you're trying
to get a fence put on the property if
there's a detached garage that you're
wanting to get a new garage door for if
you're wanting to put in 40 hedges along
the side to create a barrier between you
and the neighbor next door none of those
are items that you can use improvement
money for the improvement money can only
go towards things that are on the actual
home second thing to note is it's only
for improvements so this is a very
common thing contractor will go to write
down a removal of windows thousand
dollars reinstallation of Windows 2000
dollars well guess what that window
removal not covered under the renovation
money you need to ask your contractor to
just be a little more general in what
they say if the lender sees demolish
rubbish removal taking things down
taking things out removal those are
keywords that they go removing yeah we
know you're putting in a new bathroom
but to remove the old one that's not
improving anything that's devaluing it
now there's a house potentially where if
these renovations don't get finished
we're left with no bathroom in this home
so any renovations that you're getting
done in the quote the only thing that
you want in the quote that we submit to
lenders are things that are improving
the property so removing of bedrooms can
often be perceived as
not adding value any kind of demolishing
even when you're going to plan on
replacing like if it's removing of old
plumbing and then replacing of old
plumbing only the replacement will be
covered under renovation money because
it's purchase plus improvements not
purchase plus stuff you're doing to the
house so those are really important
factors to look into if this is
something that you're interested in
doing there's other things we need to
get into such as not all lenders do it
rental properties are harder to get done
with improvement money so on and so
forth so give me a call if this is
something that you're wanting to do I'd
be more than happy to guide you through
the process and help you out and other
than that I guess I look forward to
hearing from you soon leonov's with the
mortgage center helping you understand
your mortgage
you